>> To me, "Mona Lisa"
makes me feel Leonardo da
Vinci's passion for
his dream woman,
the perfect woman
that he imagined.
And he may have had an
affair with this woman.
And he was so in love with her
that he painted this picture.
And he carried it around
with him everywhere he went.
And he probably had
conversations with his picture.
And I think the "Mona Lisa"
is da Vinci's real doll.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So the "Mona Lisa for me
is a painting that captures
the enigma of femininity, of
what women have, their power.
And I believe she
was a woman who was
married to a wealthy merchant.
Her name was Elizabeth.
And she probably had to fill
certain roles in her life.
She probably didn't
have a lot of freedoms
to pursue her own
dreams or visions.
But yet she still
had this wisdom
and this innate
feminine power that you
can feel through the painting.
And for me, every time
I see that painting,
it inspires me to feel the
woman behind the painting.
And I'm actually an art teacher.
And I have that
painting in my classroom
so all my students
can see that painting.
And we talk about it.
And it's a painting that
Leonardo da Vinci was really
attached to.
And he carried it around
with him for years
until he sold it to, I
believe, Francis I in 1508.
So it's a great
painting by the man
I consider to be the greatest
genius who ever lived.
And it has undefinable powers.
It's a mystery.
And it's a painting about women.
And Leonardo didn't really
know how to connect with women,
I think, on a really
emotional or physical level,
but yet he captured the beauty
of women through that piece.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> To ask someone what they
think of the "Mona Lisa,"
looking at the painting, someone
who've never ever heard of it,
because what I think they'd
say is it's another painting
of a pretty woman.
And it's a beautiful painting.
Don't get me wrong.
But I think there's a
whole stigma about it
because Leonardo da
Vinci painted it,
and the whole thing
about Leonardo da Vinci,
and the things that he
did, and these drawings
of the helicopters,
and his inventions,
or an amazing man he was.
And I think therefore people
have taken the "Mona Lisa"
and made it out to be
something really amazing.
And therefore more people
think it's amazing.
And they've never even seen it.
You mention the "Mona
Lisa" to someone
and they go, oh, yeah,
that's that amazing painting.
And I bet if you asked
half the people have
you seen the painting,
they'd probably say no.
So there is an interesting
thing being built up around it.
>> The Mona Lisa would find
herself amidst the most
dangerous nuclear threat in
the history of the world.
While the United
States began the lead
in nuclear weapons testing with
numerous explosions ranging
toward 20 megatons,
Russia had tested
the largest nuclear
weapon in history
at 50 megatons on
October 31, 1961.
On October 22, 1962,
President John F. Kennedy
alarmed the world media
that the Soviet Union
was building secret missile
bases in Cuba, dangerously
close to the state of Florida
and within striking distance
of most major American cities.
This set off national panic
that the United States
was at the brink of a
nuclear war with Russia.
It was clear Russia
was ready to go to war.
The United States
was very tense.
President Kennedy skillfully
avoided the nuclear conflict
with Russia despite
pressure from US generals
who wanted a war.
On November 21,
1962, Russia agreed
to withdraw its nuclear bombers
and 40,000 Russian troops
from Cuba.
At this time, First lady Jackie
Kennedy had arranged with
the French government's cultural
minister André Malraux to have
the "Mona Lisa" visit the
United States of America.
To do this, the "Mona Lisa"
would be transported from Paris
to New York by ocean
liner in December 1962,
only days after the Russian
nuclear climate was cooling.
Mrs. Kennedy was obsessed
with the "Mona Lisa."
and yet she would risk
moving it across the Atlantic
with a chance of a
possible flare up
amongst the danger
of Russian vessels.
Did Jackie Kennedy
use the "Mona Lisa"
to tame the tension
in the Atlantic,
knowing the Russians wouldn't
dare strike while the "Mona
Lisa" was being transported,
or was her cause
a gamble for the
people's morale?
Regardless, "Mona
Lisa" prevailed
on what seems her first
global peace mission.
On January 8, 1963,
the "Mona Lisa" exhibit
opening at the
National Gallery of Art
was in concert with the opening
session of the 88th Congress.
"Mona Lisa" was in attendance
of the entire House
of Representatives, the Senate,
the Kennedy administration,
and the Supreme Court.
A Washington
newspaper commented,
"Seldom in the history of
the United States of America
has the ruling
class been present
in such overwhelming numbers."
>> Mr. Minister, we in the
United States are grateful
for this loan from the leading
artistic power in the world,
France.
In view of the recent
meeting at Nassau,
I must know further
that this painting has
been kept under
careful French control
and that France
has even sent along
its own commander-in-chief,
Monsieur Malraux.
And I want to make it
clear that, grateful as we
are for this painting, we
will continue to press ahead
with the effort to develop
an independent artistic force
and power of our own.
>> "Mona Lisa" was secured
by military guard and viewed
by tens of thousands of
Americans for only a few
seconds each.
As each person gazes at the
"Mona Lisa" throughout history,
they take with them their own
mystical experience of her.
>> I love the "Mona Lisa"
because she's got a secret.
And I know what it is.
But I'm not telling either.
>> Well, I would say that she
is very mysterious and I like
that.
But I like to believe that
she's very self-confident,
and assured, and somebody that
comes from her own inner voice,
like my serenity sisters,
that she listens to her inner
dictates instead of
what's politically correct
or whatever seems to
be end of the day.
So she's just a real serene,
but mysterious, amused,
happy female that I really like.
>> Leonardo da Vinci
was born on April 15,
1452 in a small village called
Vinci near Florence, Italy.
His father was Piero
da Vinci and his mother
a peasant girl named Catarina.
Leonardo da Vinci was not
only a master painter.
He was a scientist, an engineer,
inventor, biologist, musician,
writer, and mathematician.
While many scholars
do not believe
he encrypted his art
with hidden messages,
the "Mona Lisa's"
dimensions reveal
the truth once and for all.
Mona Lisa is 77
by 53 centimeters.
If we divide 77 centimeters
by 53, we get 1.4528301887.
We can clearly see that
the first digits, 1.452,
is the year that
Leonardo da Vinci was
born, proving that
the masterpiece is
coded with deeper meaning.
What else is hidden
in the Mona Lisa?
>> The issue of divine
providence is challenged
by the early explorers
of astronomy.
Providence means that
the church actually
believed that all of the
bishops and the popes
were receiving their all
knowingness, their omniscience
from God.
And they were God's
authority on Earth.
In the first and second
councils of Nicaea,
the idea was that providence was
present in the decision making
process to isolate the four
gospels, Matthew, Mark,
Luke, and John.
And all of the other
manuscripts that
were submitted in the
council were rejected by God,
because God's providence
was present in the council.
In fact, most Christians
believe this today.
But I believe, having
studied da Vinci,
that he was a rebel, that
he took the position, as I
do, of the anti-Nicaean fathers,
the fathers of the church that
were against the decision making
process to reject literally
hundreds and hundreds of
manuscripts that may have been
the true words of Jesus Christ.
But later, the church
actually believed
that, even scientifically,
it possessed this providence
that God's divine providence was
present in the all-knowingness
of science in the universe.
The early church
adhered to the idea
of Ptolemy's geocentric
view of the universe
that the Earth was the
center of the universe
and that the sun revolved
around the Earth.
I discovered, from
studying da Vinci's notes,
that da Vinci may have
been the first person
to actually secretly disclose
that the Earth was revolving
around the sun, which
is the heliocentric view
that later evolves.
Now Copernicus, the
Polish astronomer,
actually believed this.
In fact, he comes just a
little bit after Vinci.
I mean, they're both
alive at the same time.
They're contemporaries.
It's possible they might
have even exchanged ideas.
But Copernicus waits until
he's nearing his death
to disclose the truth that
actually the Earth is not
the center of the universe
and the church was wrong.
And there was no Providence.
God was not present in its
all-knowingness in the bishops
and the pope in the
scientific authority of God
and the universe.
In fact, what happens
later is Galileo
adopts the same
ideas of Copernicus
that the Earth is actually
revolving around the sun.
Once per year, the Earth
makes a solar orbit.
And later, of course,
as astronomy evolved,
we realized that
all the nine planets
are revolving around the
sun as a solar system.
And the solar system
is oscillating
around the galaxy every
250 million years.
So there are orbits within
orbits within orbits.
And then, of course,
you have Hubble
has now discovered there
are hundreds of millions
of galaxies in the universe.
And galaxies are far bigger
than the ancients ever
believed the universe could be.
They couldn't even
conceive of a galaxy
in the time of even da Vinci.
But looking at da
Vinci's notes, why did he
fear revealing what he
knew that the Earth was
revolving around the sun?
The reason he didn't
disclose it is
because the Inquisition's
wrath was so powerful
that if anybody challenged
the church's position
on the geocentric view,
they could face imprisonment
and even death.
And Galileo is the proof.
Galileo is the first one
whose courage comes forth.
And he publicly states,
being the first astronomer
to look at the universe with
telescopes, that the church is
wrong, that there is
no divine providence,
that, scientifically, it becomes
proven, just like we discovered
the Earth is not
flat, it's round,
now we discover that the Earth
is revolving around the sun.
So what this means is da Vinci
may have been one of the first
to know this before
Copernicus and before Galileo.
But he kept it secret.
So what other
secrets did he keep?
What did he know?
How much did da
Vinci really know?
>> Well, clearly, he was that,
and what I think as a young
person what inspired me
most about Leonardo was his
diversity, is that he
was really diverse.
And he was very close to nature
and influenced by nature.
And in much of my work,
I'm influenced by nature.
There is a crossover
between the human condition
and civilization in nature
and how those interact.
That's why I studied a lot
of Leonardo's nature drawings
and water drawings, how
he captured movement.
And he's clearly an
observer of the world.
And then, there again reflecting
back to the "Mona Lisa,"
she's observing the world.
She's very clearly
observing the world.
No matter where you stand and
look at her, she's observing.
>> In the case of the
"Mona Lisa," I mean,
I literally know
nothing about art.
I mean, literally, I
am not an art scholar.
But what happened
to me on November
the 11th was that,
mysteriously, this woman
in this deep sapphire robe
appears at the foot of my bed
in the middle of the night.
And her magnetic field is so
powerful I feel like I'm just
a little dust ball about
to be pulled out of body
and she's going to
take me somewhere.
And I fear, because the
mystery of the deep sapphire
color, the woman.
She doesn't announce her name.
And as I fear, I
hear three bells.
Bing, bing, bing,
these beautiful tones
making the sign of the Trinity.
And I look at my alarm
clock next to my wife,
a digital alarm clock while
I'm sitting up in bed.
And it goes from 1:10 to 1:11,
making the sign of the Trinity.
So what happens is I wake up
in the middle of the night.
It's getting onto 2:00 AM.
And I'm getting all
this information
on how to decode
the "Mona Lisa."
Why me?
Why David Sereda?
Well, in 1994, I began
to receive apparitions,
spiritual visions of
Jesus Christ blinding
like 1,000 suns.
And in 1997 on Easter morning,
I saw Jesus again a second time,
blazing even brighter than
that fallen upon my face.
And then I saw
him again in 1999.
Jesus began to teach me
revelations and understandings
into the teachings of
singularity, of nondualism
that were extant in all of the
major religions of the world.
The ancient Hindus called
nondualism [SANSKRIT]..
And Buddha's nirvana
in the 6th century BC
is described as the nondual
supreme state of consciousness.
And now Jesus was
teaching me nondualism
in the Christian literature.
And he taught me
where to find it.
But instantly upon
seeing Jesus Christ,
I had this ability to
see invisible beings.
It just started happening.
I've seen hundreds and
hundreds of invisible beings.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, some people think this
half is woman and this half is
a man.
And so, to me, when I
look at the "Mona Lisa"
really deep in side, I
feel like a Western version
of [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] It's a
male and female energy merging
to one in the beauty.
So that is "Mona
Lisa" to me too.
>> When we first
approached the "Mona Lisa,"
we could only see it from afar
because of the swarms of people
that surrounded every
angle of the painting.
My family decided
to just pass it by
and thought there was no
hope that they would ever
clear a way for us to get it
anywhere close enough to really
see the master work from Vinci.
So I decided that I
was going to just plow
my way through about 50 people
and saying [FRENCH] all the way
through.
And I was able to
approach the very front
where I was only inches away
from the "Mona Lisa" painting.
At that point, I
was more or less
waiting for some kind of mystery
to be revealed to me because
of all that I heard about it.
And from what I
saw in art books,
I thought that
something more was
supposed to be revealed to
me seeing it face to face.
But I was really still only
left with the mystery of it.
So I took a picture.
And I still have the
picture to this day.
>> So now what happens is there
are hundreds of manuscripts
circulating throughout the
Roman Empire that are illegal,
that are called heresy
by the church, lies,
Everything outside of the
four canonized gospels.
Da Vinci is born in 1452.
One year later, the church
at Constantinople in Turkey,
what is now Turkey, would
fall to the Muslim conquerors.
And the da Vinci is born
right at this pivotal point
in history that the
church was fully
founded in Rome in Italy,
the very place of where
he was born.
And the new church, the Catholic
church, the one united church,
would be his antithesis.
Da Vinci loved Jesus Christ.
He becomes baptized
as a Christian.
But we can see through his
proverbs and his great sayings
that he was a rebel, that he
wanted to think for himself.
In fact, I believe that
da Vinci had clear access
to the noncanonized
gospels themselves.
And he reveals his
greatest secret.
He hides it in the greatest
masterpiece he ever created,
the "Mona Lisa" itself.
>> The "Mona Lisa," she is an
ancient symbol of the goddess,
of the princess, of the
mother, painted a long time ago
and revered by most men and
women all over the planet.
To me, she's right up there with
the goddess Nefertiti and Isis.
Oh.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In the Apocryphon of
John, it is written
that 550 days after
the crucifixion,
John was suffering
in the desert alone.
In a blaze of light,
Jesus appears to him
and transfigures three times
from a young man to an old man
and then into a servant.
Jesus says to John, John,
John, why do you doubt,
or why are you afraid?
You are not unfamiliar
with this image, are you?
That is do not be timid.
I am the one who
is with you always.
I am the father.
I am the mother.
I am the son.
I am the undefiled
and incorruptible one.
But who is the servant if John's
trimorphic vision of Jesus
refers to the father,
mother, and son of God?
>> (SINGING) Mona Lisa, Mona
Lisa, I know your secret.
>> It is painstakingly
obvious who the servant is
in the Apocryphon of John.
When Jesus reveals the
transmorphic vision to John,
and he tells John, John,
John, why do you doubt
or, why are you afraid?
That is, do not be timid.
I am the one who
is with you always.
I am the father.
I am the mother.
I am the son.
So the servant, it's obvious.
And when we consider
that women were
the servants in the family in
the old Middle Eastern world
and that Jesus' mother Mary was
his first servant as a child,
that Jesus is speaking that
the servant is actually
the mother of God.
The mother of God.
I am the father.
I am the mother.
And I am the son.
The first image John sees is
God with a white beard, whom
Jesus never lived
to be old enough
to have the white gray beard.
It's obvious that
Jesus is showing John
that he is the ancient of days.
He is God, the god who
appeared to all the prophets.
And then he appears
as the young man
whose beard is just
beginning, and then
into the woman, the servant.
That God is saying something
to John here through Jesus,
that he is saying that
the image you have
of God in the church as the
man, as the male dominant image
of God, is wrong.
I am showing you that
God is both the father,
and the mother, and
the son all in one,
this trimorphic vision--
revelation to John is
that the image of God
is feminine and masculine.
And the question is did Leonardo
da Vinci know the secret of God
in the feminine, not
in the Magdalene,
not in Mary Magdalene,
not in their relationship,
but in God God's self.
>> I have always wondered or
believed that God is both male
and female, masculine
and feminine,
because it said that we
are created in his image.
And if you look
at the scriptures
when he covered the earth,
it means to womb the earth.
And even if you look at Adam and
Eve, Eve was taken out of Adam.
So within Adam was also
the feminine as well as
the masculine.
So we are both
created in his image.
And when you put two
together, the two
shall become one in marriage.
That's what it represents.
So what I believe is
in the "Mona Lisa"
is the Leonardo and
Lisa becoming one.
The two shall become one.
So the Mona Lisa
represents the oneness
of the masculine
and the feminine.
>> Since mono means basically
the number one, single, Monday,
monad was derived from that
to make the same definition
through God.
Monad is any single unit of
being, such as a soul, God,
or the number one.
But it extends from the
mono of being just a unit
one to actually being a
being of one, such as in God.
So that's why monad was used
in a lot of ancient scriptures
as the singularity
or oneness of God.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Although there is evidence
that Leonardo da Vinci
encrypted messages
in his paintings,
no one has decrypted the title
of the "Mona Lisa" until now.
It appears as an ordinary
name or the name of the woman
he used to model for him.
Leonardo da Vinci hid the
truth about "Mona Lisa"
deep inside the letters,
later to be confirmed
in the painting itself.
Looking at ancient religious
methods of encryption
and their origins
is the first clue.
In deep mystic philology,
there is a deeper meaning
as to why da Vinci encrypted
his secret message from right
to left and left to right.
This level of encryption was
used in the ancient Hebrew
manuscripts the Kabbalah
and the Sepher Yetzirah.
As translated by
Wynn Westcott, quote,
"the "Sepher Yetzirah,"
or "Book of Formation,"
is perhaps the oldest
rabbinical treatise
of Kabalistic philosophy,
which is still extant.
The Kabalistic principles
involved the reversal
of Hebrew letters."
This reversal of
letters was used
to reflect the dualistic
principles of the creation
of the universe and man, which
the Sepher Yetzirah expounds
upon.
In English, the word live
reversed spells evil.
This is an example
of historical dualism
and early encryption
in English philology.
To play letters
forward and backwards
as a method of encryption
would be too easy and obvious
for anyone good at
solving puzzles.
If Leonardo da Vinci named
his "Mona Lisa" using
this simple encryption, it
would have long ago revealed
a message that holds no meaning.
Asil Anom is Mona
Lisa in reverse.
This would not be a level
of encryption secure enough
for Leonardo da Vinci to hide
his most treasured message
in the "Mona Lisa,"
sequestering it
from the Inquisition's wrath.
Leonardo da Vinci would
encrypt his message
with a form of dualism
not yet imagined.
He would use the
Fibonacci sequence
to place a cipher in between
the letters "Mona Lisa"
moving forward and
backward in sequence.
Because there are eight
letters in "Mona Lisa"
and eight is a Fibonacci
number, all we have to do
is look at the two previous
numbers in Fibonacci sequence
that are added
together to get eight.
They are three and five.
3 plus 5 equals 8.
>> Leonardo da Vinci would
create another mysterious dual
layer of encryption
beneath the obvious.
His secret cipher is
a simple apostrophe,
which he would place left
to right and right to left
in Fibonacci sequence between
the third and fifth letters
in the title of the painting.
3 plus 5 equals 8
are all Fibonacci
numbers in perfect
sequence as in the eight
letters of "Mona Lisa."
We would read the message
left to right as the French,
Italian, and English do.
So if we start with mon,
the first three letters,
firstly, we see that it comes
from the root word meaning mono
or singular, or the
monad of God, which
is the singularity,
the androgyny of God,
which is male female in union.
And alisa in ancient
Hebrew actually
means great joy in the feminine.
In fact, alisa is a
woman's name in Hebrew.
But it actually
in ancient Hebrew
means great joy in the feminine.
So once again, we have
singularity of God
brings great joy in the
feminine as one translation.
But then if we go to
translation number two,
and we put the apostrophe here.
Which is five letters
in from this side,
so we actually go
to Mona Lisa, this
is where the break is at
the L. So Mona is one word
and L apostrophe
is five letters in.
We come to Mona Lisa.
And if this is an
apostrophe right here,
we have Mona the Isa,
because in French and Italian
you can never have two
vowels facing each other.
You can't have [FRENCH],,
which means the star.
You have [FRENCH],,
So L apostrophe isa.
>> Is Mona Lisa a code
word for a deeper meaning?
Mona L apostrophe Isa
in Italian translates
into English as Mona the Isa.
Isa is the name of
Jesus in Arabic.
Jesus's true name, according
to the holy Quran, was Isa.
So the translation of Mona
Lisa reads Mona the Jesus,
denoting Mona is Jesus.
>> Did da Vinci know the secret?
And if he knew the secret,
where did he hide it?
Is it hidden in his most
famous painting of all time?
Arguably, the most
famous painting
in history of the world
is the "Mona Lisa."
>> (SINGING) I carry on.
>> Is "Mona Lisa"
hiding a secret?
We think of the right
hand, the masculine side,
concealing the
left, the feminine.
Is that a symbol
that the masculine
is hiding the feminine?
In fact, for centuries, it
was argued is the Mona Lisa
a man or a woman.
I mean even that was a
centuries old debate,
because there is something
about her that's masculine.
And there's also something
about her that's feminine.
And we look at that mysterious
blinding glare in her eyes.
It's very obvious that
she is holding a secret.
When the Center for
Research and Restoration
did an X-ray photograph
of the "Mona Lisa,"
x-rays are far more penetrating
than visible light rays
and far more penetrating than
ultraviolet light rays, which
we don't even see.
The X-ray image
reveals the iconoclasm.
There it is staring
us in the face.
Underneath the surface
of the "Mona Lisa"
is the hidden image
of Jesus Christ.
It is so obvious that this
image under the "Mona Lisa"
is Jesus himself hidden,
concealed under the "Mona
Lisa."
And if we look at the language,
the linguistics, Mona el Isa,
is Mona in the feminine,
el, apostrophe, Isa, we see
the translation, Mona is Jesus.
>> But there is also evidence
that the ancient Hindus knew
Jesus as Isa in what is now
Tibet before Tibetan Buddhism
was born in the
seventh century AD.
In the Bhavishya Maha Purana,
an ancient Hindu Sanskrit
manuscript, it is written that
the King of the Sakya tribe
Buddha's same Himalayan
tribe, in 623 BC
described what
appears to be Jesus
near Mount Kailash in Tibet.
This is the most sacred mountain
to the Hindus and Tibetans
today.
It is the abode
of Lord Shiva, one
of the greatest of the
Hindu enlightened deities.
And there is Jesus,
Isa, in its midst.
It is written that the
Sakyan king described Isa
as an auspicious man with a fair
complexion and white clothes.
In the text, the king
asked, who are you, sir?
Jesus replied blissfully,
you should know
that I am Isa, the Son of God.
And I am born of a virgin.
Later in the text,
Jesus continues,
and thus my name became Isa
Masiha, Jesus the messiah.
The point is clear that
Jesus is in India and Tibet.
And his name was
Isa, the same name
that Leonardo da Vinci
chose to represent
Jesus in the "Mona Lisa."
The X-ray image
of the "Mona Lisa"
clearly reveals
that this was not
da Vinci's charcoal
sketch of what
was to become the "Mona Lisa."
The image is not of an
Italian woman, rather a man
with the perfect features
of a Jewish rabbi, precisely
as Jesus was to his disciples.
Nathaniel answered and
said to him, rabbi,
you are the Son of God.
You are the king of Israel.
God instructs Moses, you
shall not around the corners
of your heads.
Neither shall you mar
the corners of thy beard.
>> And these are
the Hebrew locks.
>> The payot.
The payot.
Those are the
traditional Hebrew locks.
>> And his hair is centered.
>> This is not an Italian
image of the "Mona Lisa"
as the sketch underneath is
clearly the image of Jesus
Christ.
And look at the beard,
the short beard,
and the space between the
beard and the edge of the ears.
>> This was precisely why the
rabbis had the long ringlets
of hair growing out
of their sideburns,
just as Jesus does in
da Vinci's revelation.
>> You're right.
This is clearly a man.
And you can even
see the eyebrows.
What is that?
That's like a scar.
No, that's blood.
>> That's the blood from
the crown of thorns.
And there's blood here too
right at the corner of the eye.
>> Proving it's Jesus.
Yeah.
If
>> We consider the
Inquisition and now we can see
the evidence, the proof, what
da Vinci was trying to say
in the "Mona Lisa" 500 years
ago was that God was both a man
and a woman.
We can clearly see from
knowing the severity
of the persecution
of the Inquisition
that da Vinci's
life was in danger.
He had to hide it.
They would have killed him.
The church would
have killed him.
And it's only today
in the 21st century
that we could get away with
this-- that I could get away
with this in my research
so I could tell the world
and not be burned
at the stake myself.
But da Vinci, already
having passed away,
his final secret
is revealed would
be that he did this on purpose.
He had to hide it.
The man had to give us symbols,
the hidden hand, the masculine
concealing the feminine, the
eyes, the androgynous image,
the veil around the
head truly showing
that this is truly a woman.
This is a feminine image.
And the veil suggesting
the virginity of the Mona.
And if we also look at--
what is also more fascinating
is another translation
of the "Mona Lisa" is Mona
compares to mono meaning
singular or monad.
The monad is the
singularity of God.
And also that this
singularity of God
brings great joy, because alisa
in ancient Hebrew means joy.
So Mona, the Mona,
Alisa is the singularity
of God bringing great joy.
So yet there is a deeper image.
I believe da Vinci
spent so much time
thinking about how
profound his discovery was
and how to code it in
the secret language.
There is more devastating
proof that Jesus
could physically transfigure
into, anatomically,
a woman in the Acts of John.
The Acts of John were banned
by Pope Leo the Great.
He ordered all copies
to be burned and erased
from the face of the Earth.
But obviously, some of the
copies actually survived.
And the question is did
da Vinci have access
to the Acts of
John, because what
is written in them is a
scene where there is yet
another transfiguration
in the Bible
where Jesus takes his disciples
up onto the mountain where
he used to pray.
And he transfigures into
this glorious light.
And John comes up upon him.
And he sees Jesus disrobes
of all of his clothes.
Jesus is naked.
And John says, since he loved
me, he let me come close.
And John comes close.
And he says he looks at his
hinder parts, his behind
and his sexual organs.
And he sees that he
was not a man at all.
Not a man at all.
And if he was not a man at
all in the negative space,
it could only mean one thing,
that Jesus was anatomically
transfiguring as
a woman for John
to see the absolute proof
that he could appear
as a woman and
also the fact that,
in the uncanonized
gospels, there
is accounts of him
walking on the earth
and leaving no
footprints behind.
No footprints.
Who can do this and
make the ground start
to light up with light?
And in the Acts of John, his
head stretches all the way
into heaven and John is
terrified, terrified,
of what he's seeing, his
master's form going from a man
to a woman in the nude
and stretching his head
all the way into the
clouds in heaven.
And John is terrified.
And Jesus grabs him by the
beard so tightly that John
goes into torrential pain.
And Jesus says, why
did you doubt me, John?
Don't you understand
that I am who I say I am?
I am God in the human flesh.
>> If da Vinci did not have
direct access to the many
gnostic gospels depicting
the feminine Christ,
how else could he
have known the secret?
He may have had a vision
or apparition of Jesus
where he would have been given
the same trimorphic revelation
that John received.
da Vinci could have painted
Jesus Christ's portrait
through his own
eyes, which would
make this painting the
most accurate image of what
Jesus really looked like.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The "Mona Lisa"--
I actually looked into the
eyes of that "Mona Lisa"
and received the transmission
from the smile, both the eyes
and the smile holding the
wisdom transmitted from da Vinci
onto canvas and
impacting me very,
very deeply with the wisdom
from the Far East and the West
coming together and a certain
knowing that I picked up just
from that transmission.
And I remember that to this
very day, to this very moment,
And just as much as
the transmissions
that I have received
wherever I've traveled.
So I hold this one very
deeply in my memory.
>> Mystery, a knowing,
like a feminine knowing.
>> I think we're all
fascinated with the "Mona Lisa"
because she represents the
essence of female mystery.
>> The "Antiquities of the
Jews" were written in 93
of the common era
by Flavius Josephus,
whose eyewitness account of
history and writings were
highly respected.
He writes, now a woman is called
in the Hebrew tongue, Isa,
but the name of this woman
was Eve, which signifies
the mother of all living.
This confirms that the name
for a woman in ancient Hebrew
is Isa, the same name given
to be the name of Jesus
by Leonardo da Vinci, the
Arabs, the ancient Hindus,
and possibly the Hebrews.
But why would Jesus'
name mean woman
unless it was code for Jesus
as God in the feminine?
Was it well known that Jesus
could transfigure himself
into a woman but hidden
from the eyes of historians?
Is Leonardo da Vinci
telling the world
in his most famous
painting that Mona Lisa
is Jesus as a woman, the Isa?
The Shroud of Turin
is believed by many
to be the true burial cloth
that Jesus' body was wrapped in.
Upon his luminous resurrection,
a photographic effect
burned his negative
image into the fabric.
Developing a positive image from
the photograph of the negative,
we can see what appears to
be the image of Jesus Christ.
If it is proven to
be real, this could
be the true face of Jesus.
International
radiocarbon-14 testing
in Arizona, Oxford, and
Zurich date the fabric
of the Shroud of Turin
from 1260 to 1390 CE
to a degree of 95% accuracy.
Scholars argue that Leonardo
da Vinci could have had access
to similar fabric
100 or so years old
during his era of the
15th to 16th century.
Many scholars believed
the mystery was solved
and that da Vinci was the
perpetrator of the hoax.
It was believed that he created
the shroud and the image
was Vinci himself
posing as Jesus Christ.
Yet when the radiocarbon dating
came too close to the time
that the shroud was
exposed to a fire in 1532,
scientists realized the
carbon dating was flawed,
because the fire had
deposited its own carbon.
The fire's carbon on the
shroud ruined any possibility
of an accurate
radiocarbon-14 dating.
It was now clear this
was not a da Vinci hoax.
Other dating techniques may
prove the Shroud of Turin
was from the time of Christ.
British author Philip
Gardner explains.
>> One of the other things
about the Shroud of Turin is,
of course, the weave.
It's very important
to understand
that the cotton that
makes up this cloth
is actually woven
in such a way that
gives us a dating and
an area of who did it.
Textile experts from across
the world flock to the shroud.
And all the ones
that I've spoken to--
come into contact
with it anyway--
all say this is a Z twill weave.
It's 3.1 weave as they call
it, three in one weave.
That is particular to
an area and a time.
And that time and that
area is the first century
of the Middle East, roughly
Damascus through to Jerusalem.
Can't pinpoint it
any more than that.
It's incredible really.
And this can take into account
either Jerusalem as we know it
or, as some would have
it, the new Jerusalem
that the Essenes lived in
near Damascus and Kuram.
Very interesting, of course,
because these Essenes are well
known for having put together
what are now known as the Dead
Sea Scrolls and
also for implying
an awful lot of the future
history of a man known
as Jesus.
They wore beards.
They wore white.
Cloth, linen, and the twill
weave that these people
had matches the shroud.
>> At Texas University's Center
for Advanced DNA technologies,
Dr. Victor Tyron
and his wife Dr.
Nancy Tyron performed an
independent test for DNA
on the Shroud of Turin.
They first established that the
threads contained human blood,
and then that DNA was
present in the blood.
The DNA of the blood was
tested at Yale University.
Further testing of
the blood showed signs
that the person
had been tortured,
providing evidence
that it could really
be the blood of Jesus Christ.
According to an
article published
in the Italian newspaper
"Chi," a DNA analysis
of the blood on
the Shroud of Turin
was conducted by
Professor Marcello
Canale of the Institute of
Legal Medicine in Genoa, Italy
in 1995.
Professor Canale
at the time said,
"With regard to sexual
characteristics,
we have positive
indications for both genders
but much more positive
for the masculine one.
It would seem that there has
been some form of contamination
as we cannot suppose that
the individual represented
on the stains belong
to both sexes."
While theories expounded
that a female nun had
bled on the shroud,
polluting the DNA sample,
there is no documented
evidence of this.
Yet Cardinal Saldarini
being advised by the pope,
made a public statement
that repudiated
the evidence of both
male and female DNA
from the same blood sample.
He regarded it as being
insignificant and focused
on the many people
throughout history that
had handled the shroud.
>> What was really interesting
with the DNA was both male
and female DNA has been found.
Now, that's interesting.
Scientists have put
this down to the fact
that over time, there
have been many norms,
many people work on
the shroud, mending it,
repairing it from various fires
and other forms of damage.
And they may have
pricked their thumb
and spilt some of their
blood in the very area
that the blood of the
person in the shroud was.
And so therefore, it's become
contaminated over time.
Now this isn't beyond the realms
of science fiction at all.
This is highly possible, highly
likely that that's the case.
But one problem with that
is that DNA can't mix.
You cannot mix two
peoples' DNA together.
>> Could this evidence
of male/female DNA
in Jesus's blood build the case
for the transfigurative Christ,
shape-shifting from male to
female, as in the Acts of John?
The mystery of the woman
wearing the sapphire robe who
appeared to David Sereda
on November 12th at 1:11 AM
is starting to emerge.
In Da Vinci's painting,
"The Virgin on the Rocks,"
we see the Virgin is wearing
a blue sapphire robe.
What is the significance
of this color?
Why are Jesus and Mary Magdalene
wearing blue and scarlet
in Da Vinci's "Last Supper?"
Aaron, the brother of
Moses, was instructed by God
to wear the ephod, a blue
robe, along with a breastplate
of gems to protect
himself upon approaching
God on Mount Hebron.
The succession of all
the Hebrew priests
were only allowed to be men--
at least history tells us so.
Why, then, does Da Vinci show
divine female personalities
wearing the blue robes?
Could he have coded them
as high priestesses?
Did the high priestess once play
a role in the Jewish temple?
[THUNDER]
The theory that Jesus was
married to Mary Magdalene
and had children to
continue the holy bloodline
is now pervasive in modern
culture, but lacks evidence.
While this idea was proposed
by numerous authors such as Dan
Brown, Lawrence Gardner,
and Michael Baigent,
none had discovered the evidence
hidden in the Gospel of Philip
in a code language.
The Gospel of Philip
firstly states,
"There were three who always
walked with the Lord--
Mary, his mother, her
sister, and Magdalene,
the one who was
called his companion.
His sister and his
mother and his companion
were each named Mary."
This establishes Mary
Magdalene as Jesus's companion,
setting her aside from
being another disciple.
She must have spent a
lot or most of her time
with Jesus, as any
wife would have.
Her level of
spiritual realization
to be Jesus's
companion would be that
of a master, not a disciple.
As the Gospel of
Philip continues,
we can see that the
work prepares us
for the mystery beyond mystery--
that Mary Magdalene
is the great Sophia
of Christ, the feminine Christ.
To understand this work, let's
define the Sophia of Christ.
Sophia in Greek means wisdom.
So many thought this simply
means the wisdom of Christ.
The gospel the Sophia
of Christ reveals
that Sophia is the feminine
consort of Jesus Christ
and always was from the
beginning of all creation,
before they both took birth.
>> Sophia means wisdom.
But deeper, if you look
in the Sophia of Christ,
the manuscript itself--
one of the hidden manuscripts
in the Nag Hammadi Library
collection--
we can see that Sophia is
the feminine consort of God,
and that she always existed
as God in the feminine,
and the possibility that when
Jesus became the Son of God--
God in the flesh--
that she came with him as the
feminine, the daughter of God
in the flesh, and that they
would become married and united
and eventually give
birth to children.
>> Matthew said to him, Lord,
Savior, how was man revealed?
The perfect Savior
said, I want you
to know that he who
appeared before the universe
in infinity, self-grown,
self-constructed Father,
being full of shining light
and ineffable in the beginning.
Secondly, the Sophia of
Christ reveals that the father
has a feminine consort, Sophia.
"And his consort is the Great
Sophia, who from the first
was destined in him for union
by self-begotten Father."
This establishes that Sophia
is the pre-eminent Father's
consort.
"He was given great
authority, and he ruled
over the creation of poverty.
He created gods and
angels and archangels,
myriads without
number for retinue,
from the light and the
tri-male spirit, which
is that of Sophia, his consort.
For from this, God originated
divinity and kingdom.
Therefore, he was called God
of gods and King of kings."
When we come back to look at
the Gospel of Philip's work,
we can see Sophia with
clarity, that she is
the feminine aspect of Christ.
But is she Mary
Magdalene in the flesh?
The Gospel of Philip reads, "The
apostle said to the disciples,
'May our entire
offering obtain salt.'
They called Sophia 'salt.'
Without it, no
offering is acceptable.
But Sophia is barren,
without child.
For this reason, she is
called 'a trace of salt.'"
Calling Sophia
barren, without child,
describes Sophia as a person
who has not had children.
Mary, Jesus's mother, clearly
has had her child, Jesus.
The Gospel of Philip
does not refer to Mary,
the mother of Jesus, anymore.
It refers to Mary Magdalene.
The Gospel of Philip continues,
showing the absence of words
from the Gospel's damaged areas,
and ends the sentence with,
quote, and her
children are many.
Sophia, barren, without child,
is called a trace of salt.
Yet the apostles ask that
their entire offering
obtain salt,
calling Sophia salt,
and later revealing that
her children are many.
This shows that Sophia was
called both a trace of salt
or salt, depending upon
her current state of being
without or with child.
We can assume that
they called her
a trace of salt when she
was without child to leave
room for her children, who
would be called salt too,
therefore calling
her simply salt when
she bears her children.
This reveals the meaning
behind their entire offering
obtaining salt, as opposed
to a trace of salt,
and saying without it, no
offering is acceptable.
May our entire offering
obtain salt. Calling
Sophia and her children
salt would translate as,
may our entire
offering obtain Sophia,
known as God in the
feminine, and her children.
At one time, soldiers
in ancient Rome
were paid in part with a ration
of salt called a solarium,
from the Latin word sal,
which means salt. Later,
when salt was replaced with
an actual money allowance
to buy the salt, the allowance
itself was called a solarium.
Eventually, solarium came to
mean the wages themselves,
and this led to our
calling ones pay a salary.
This would denote that calling
Sophia and her children salt
implies they are of great value,
for salt was highly valued
at that time.
This also shows salt was
used as a way of quantifying
the amount of pay one received,
just as the apostles quantified
Sophia's salt as being a trace
of salt when she was barren,
without child.
Did Sophia, known as God's
consort and Jesus's companion,
whom is now known
as Mary Magdalene,
give birth to Jesus
Christ's children on Earth?
Did they leave behind a lineage?
We know that Jesus was
conceived in the Virgin Mary
by the power of the Holy Ghost.
If God can create
a galaxy, let alone
a universe, how simple it would
be to create life in the womb
by the power of the Holy Ghost.
But now, we will see that
even that power and all power
is manifest in Jesus Christ
in the Gospel of Philip.
Quote-- what the father
possesses belongs to the son,
and the son himself,
so long as he is small,
is not entrusted
with what is his.
But when he becomes
a man, his father
gives him all he possesses.
Ultimately, it was Jesus
who conceived himself
as son, because he is
one with the Father.
Now, the iconoclasm arrives
with perfect clarity
the reason for the
famous kiss given
to Mary Magdalene by Jesus,
as in the Gospel of Philip.
>> Everybody knows from the
Gospel of Philip and the Da
Vinci Code that Jesus kissed
Mary Magdalene on the lips.
And he, according to the gospel,
he used to do this often.
But with Dan Brown missed
is in the preceding
phrases of the
Gospel of Philip, it
is clear that the perfect
ones, as Jesus is,
have the power to conceive life
in the womb through a kiss,
not through sexuality.
>> The reason for the famous
kiss given to Mary Magdalene
by Jesus is in the
Gospel of Philip.
Quote-- as for the wisdom
who is called the barren,
she is the mother of the angels
and the companion of the Lord--
Mary Magdalene.
Jesus loved her more
than all the disciples
and used to kiss her
often on her mouth.
Since the last
word was originally
left out due to
damage, recent scholars
have researched and agreed upon
the missing word being mouth.
Did Jesus cause
life to be conceived
in Mary Magdalene's
womb with the same grace
and power that was bestowed
upon the Virgin Mary,
only this time transferring
life through a kiss?
The Gospel of Philip continues,
revealing the commotion
among the disciples
over this extended kiss.
"They said to him, 'Why do you
love her more than all of us?'
The Savior answered and said
to them, 'Why do I not love you
like her?
When a blind man
and one who sees
are both together
in darkness, they
are no different
from one another.
When the light comes, then he
who sees will see the light,
and he who is blind will
remain in darkness.'
The Lord said, 'Blessed is
he who is before he came
into being, for he who is,
has been, and shall be.'"
Is Jesus withholding
this secret because he
knows that Mary Magdalene
and their children
would face death
having this exposed?
>> The idea that Mary Magdalene
and Joseph of Arimathea--
after taking the
body of Jesus Christ
to his tomb in the
Resurrection and Jesus
appearing to Mary
Magdalene first
before all the other
disciples, and Jesus
tells all of his disciples
to spread the gospel
and go across the
world to migrate--
Thomas is sent to India.
Mark is sent to Egypt.
All the disciples are sent
into different directions
around the globe.
But Mary Magdalene,
it is believed,
was sent all the way
to Western Europe.
That she may have taken the
actual children, the offspring
of Jesus and herself, and
hid them in Europe, somewhere
in Europe, because the
wrath of the Roman Empire
and the Jewish persecution of
the Christians was continuing.
That the idea that
Jesus Christ was
going to become the new
power, the new central power
on the planet was still not
acceptable to the Romans.
But by the 16th century AD, in
the time of Da Vinci's birth,
it was clearly established
that Christianity
was the new religion
of the empirical world.
In fact, Jesus becomes the
greatest icon of religion
today.
There are 2.2 billion
Christians in the world today,
and nearly a billion Catholics.
So Christianity becomes the
greatest power on the planet.
But the secret of
God in the feminine
is clearly revealed in
the Gospels themselves.
And I believe Da Vinci
had access to this,
and he encoded the Mona
Lisa with his greatest
secret of all time.
>> The Twelve Apostles
were nearly all murdered.
If Mary was pregnant,
she would have
had to flee far from the
reach of the Roman Empire
to find true security.
Western Europe was
the only true place
to find privacy and secrecy.
The Gospel of Philip continues,
suggesting their marriage
in heaven caused the
creation of the world.
Jesus said, great is
the mystery of marriage,
for without it, the
world would not exist.
Why would Jesus say great
is the mystery of marriage
when marriage as we know
it is not a mystery?
It is known that a man
and a woman can marry.
The meaning is deeper still--
for without it, the
world would not exist.
Jesus does not say human
beings would not exist.
He says the world
would not exist.
He refers here to the
divine feminine, Sophia,
and the masculine
son of God, Christ,
referring to their marriage
as it was in heaven,
which gave birth to the world.
This marriage
caused the Creation
to be possible, as the
Gospel of Philip tells us.
Quote-- I want you to know
that first man is called
begetter, self-perfected mind.
He reflected with Great
Sophia, his consort,
and revealed his first
begotten androgynous son.
His male name is designated
first begetter, son of God.
His female name,
first begetress,
Sophia, mother of the universe.
[CHANTING]
Ave Maria, Ave Maria, Ave Maria,
Ave Maria, Ave, Ave Maria,
Ave Maria, Amen, Amen.